---
title: "Sparring Session #4"
tags: Kickboxing Sparring
partner: Denis, James, Quintin, Davey
---

Today's session I was pretty psycked up for but ultimately I got cut down by Davey in an early session.

I started off with decent intensity but after round 4 I was basically in recovery the entire time after kicks to my left leg.

Overall, I felt I was much less intense than the first two sessions but I think my experience is still increasing quickly.
The intensity level will be something I monitor in the next session

### Goals for today:
* Didn't outline anything in particular in advance
* Try to use the spear (minor success)
* Try the crossover leg-work talked about in class this week (minor success early on, fell off hard half way)
* more body shots (minor success)


### Post-session Recap

#### tl;dr

* vary up punching speed. I tended to always throw the same speed with the same rhythm
* against taller people with more reach, get in the pocket. Can't hit them otherwise
* check leg kicks more
* need more intensity and commit to punches
* if I grab their leg, one technique then release

### Recap

#### Denis
* I need to have more intensity with my punches.
  * towards the end I was in range a lot of the time and he was defending, waiting for me to strike
  * I didn't strike at all for fear of a counter
  * Need to strike anyway otherwise nothing happens
* In the same vein, sometimes I'd throw a half punch like I was second guessing myself. Can't be doing that

#### James 
* Didn't have any more luck with getting in range by myself.
* After a few real exchanges, he let me into the pocket and we scrapped for a bit.
  * I think I lost that too, not sure why. I went primarily for body shots when in the pocket. Need to figure out why I'm not going for the head at all in the pocket.
  

#### Quintin
* Managed to spear him once or twice
* His punches hurt a lot, as expected of his size
* The round felt like it ended too quickly, so I think I wasn't being intense enough

#### Davey
* cut me down pretty badly with leg kicks
* was also the best this session at checking my kicks. I think it discouraged me a lot from kicking him more, which lead to the 1-sided fight


#### Misc
* One fight I had I caught a guy's kick and instead of me letting loose on him, he punched me a bunch in the head and I couldn't get a technique in.
  * Should note his response for myself
  * At another point I tried mixing in multiple techniques off a catch, which is bad too I think because I'm defending one arm against two and the target for kicks would be weird.
