---
title: Sparring Session #2
tags: Kickboxing Sparring
partner: Denis, Devin, James
---
# Sparring Session #2

My second sparring session and I felt much more relaxed going in compared to my first session.
I was still stiff and overthinking things when I started but I quickly overcame it and was able to maintain a somewhat relaxed state throughout most of my rounds.

Partners of Note: Denis, Devin, James

## Denis
### Boxing

* 1st round: held out his jab as a guard/shield. For the first round, I was hitting it like it was a bag which didn't accomplish anything
  * told me to do something weird to try to get past it
* 2nd round: added in a lot more stance switches at the start, then was "jumping" around back and forth
  * wasn't particularly effective at getting around his guard but was still better than the first round
  * I suspect the ineffectiveness was because it was my first time trying it and it needs to be polished. I'll be trying it more in the coming weeks
* post-session followup: 
  * If I'm going to stance switch, I either need to go forward for straight punch or if going to the side like I normally do, throw a strong hook (of the side I'm switching to) so that a strike is coming from the opposite direction in which I'm moving my body
  * If going to the side, I can also square up quickly for straight punches
  * I'm also not closing distance enough
  * TODO: ask him to show me that stance switch forward/back movement again, having trouble picturing it

## Devin:
### Kickboxing
Notes: much larger than me - probably 6'4" and ~240 lbs
* His movements were slower but he probably hits like a truck
  * I say **probably** because **I didn't risk** going into the pocket at all, instead attempting to play a more ranged game as his reach did not seem to be particularly longer than mine.
* He kicked me once in the leg above the shinguard but below the knee cap (I checked, maybe improperly)
  * it completely took me out, as I felt like I kicked a tree.

TODO: more shin strengthening/deadening of the nerves. 
It was lame to be so compromised so easily

## James
### Boxing
Notes: Taller than me, probably 6'2", longer reach
* hit me with harder body shots, took me out via gassing
* he had good setup: Jab -> Jab, cross -> Jab, cross body hook

TAKEAWAYS: 
* will need to improve movements in order to overcome the reach disadvantage
* more volume will lead to more setups will lead to more clean hits


## Other Notes
* I didn't fight her but apparently Olivia has very strong kicks and likes inside leg kicks
* I have a tendency to react to inside leg kicks but simply turning the target leg outwards and taking the kick in the quad...BAD
* Conclusion: fight her and ask her to let loose on kicks below the head. Should lead to some more lessons learned.
