---
title: Coaching
tags: Boxing Coaching Movement
partner: Wolfgang
---
This session was heavily focused on staying relaxed in my upper body as well as using smart and fluid movements to create openings.

## Tension
Since starting kick boxing, I've had an issue of always being tense in my upper body. 
It uses more energy than is necessary for defense, and increases the damage I'd take from hits. 
It's a tough habit to break since it seems to happen whenever I try to focus on making my body do something specific, including keeping it relaxed...

Really the only takeaway for me here is that it's still a problem and I probably need a mental system during training where I'm checking in on my tension periodically and dropping it down.

## Movements
As for the fluid movements, there were several things highlighted:
* make sure the steps I'm taking are my own steps. I shouldn't be trying to match stride lengths of taller opponents.
* I can mix in normal steps with wide strides when I'm making offensive cuts
  * I have a tendency to prefer stepping into my lead leg, and taking wide steps. 
  * I also seem to prefer a stance switch as a default when cutting towards my back leg
* When making offensive cuts, ensure I don't stop when still in range, as my opponent can easily make a small turn and throw a punch
  * First option is to continue cutting in the same direction so that I'm facing their back. 
    * This is only practical if their stamina is low, or I'm willing to spend significant energy to force myself back there faster
    * It's illegal to hit anywhere on their back. The "illegal" line goes down a competitor's body from head to toe, splitting their front and back in the middle.
    * That being said, in the practical case you'll still have full target access to their entire front side with one pair of your arms and legs while they can't hit you back with anything damaging other than a telegraphed spin kick
  * Second option is to cut back out for a step. This forces the opponent to come to you, or allow you to safely move around on the outside. Once they step back in to you, you can hit their face.  

## Other Remarks
Wolf mentioned my conditioning is to the point where I can start leveraging it better in sparring.
This lines up with how I felt after last week's sparring. I wasn't very tired after the session and I think it was because I took it easier, or I was much more relaxed.

Either way, I should be aiming for higher strike volume and more movements.     
